Through NSF funding and a collaboration with the Smithsonian Latino Center, the Sol y Agua project augments the learning environment of middle school students through the creation of a computer game based on regional issues explored through information overload, virtual simulations, and real world data. The game has a theme of water sustainability and stewardship with an emphasis on information analysis, negotiation, and decision-making. The game immerses students in themes concerning biodiversity, sustainability, and the human impact on the environment. The activities challenge students to make informed decisions regarding water sources, maintenance, environmental factors, and sustainability, among others. The students learn the impact of humans on the environment through data analysis and run experiments in a virtual laboratory with real data. Data visualization allows students to interpret data in new, fun, and meaningful ways. The game has an emphasis in promoting minorities in the Southwest United States towards pursuing careers in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM), where they are largely underrepresented.

I have led the team of research assistants, acted as a liaison between the RAs and the mentors, and promoted and reviewed all scientific community exposure efforts including posters, publications, and oral presentations. I have also been in charge of software content management, formal documentation, outreach events, usability testing, story-lining, and investigation. I aided in software design, user interface, sprite development, data visualization, and activity development. 

I have been the lead in all educational components of the game. I designed all activities based on educational standards and created lesson plans for all activities that serve as formal documentation for educators to use the game in their classrooms. 

The project is now part of the Google CS4HS Initiative. As part of the project, we want to empower educators and students to use computational thinking, the Sol y Agua Game, and data science to enhance their learning environment. 

I developed supplementary activities for educators to use in their classrooms including the use of pH meters, hand-held microscopes, and micro:bits (microbit.org).
